Introduction:

The concept of VC-dimension was first introduced in 1971 by Vapnik and Chervonenkis for set systems in a probabilistic setting. The theory grew rapidly and found wide use in geometric combinatorics, in particular when applied to semi-algebraic sets. Around the same time Shelah was developing the notion of NIP ("not having the independence property"), a natural tameness property of (complete theories of) structures in model theory. In 1992 Laskowski noticed the connection between the two: theories in which all uniformly definable families of sets have finite VC-dimension turned out to be exactly NIP theories. It is a wide class of theories including algebraically closed fields, differentially closed fields, modules, free groups, o-minimal structures, and ordered abelian groups. A variety of valued fields fall into this category as well, including the p-adic numbers.

P-adic numbers were first introduced by Hensel in 1897, and over the following century a powerful theory was developed around them with numerous applications across a variety of disciplines, mainly in number theory, but also in physics and computer science. In 1965 Ax, Kochen and Ershov axiomatized the theory of p-adic numbers and proved a quantifier elimination result. A key insight was to connect properties of the value group and residue field to the properties of the valued field itself. In 1984 Denef proved a cell decomposition result for more general valued fields. It was set up in a different language, with extra sorts for the value group and residue field as well as an angular component map. This result was soon generalized to p-adic subanalytic and rigid analytic extensions, allowing for the later development of a more powerful technique of motivic integration. The conjunction of those model theoretic results allowed to solve a number of outstanding open problems in number theory (e.g., Artin's Conjecture on p-adic homogeneous forms).

In 1997, Karpinski and Macintyre computed VC-density bounds for o-minimal structures and asked about similar bounds for p-adic numbers. VC-density is a concept closely related to VC-dimension. It comes up naturally in combinatorics with relation to packings, Hamming metric, entropic dimension and discrepancy. In a model theoretic setting it is computed for families of uniformly definable sets.  In 2013, Aschenbrenner, Dolich, Haskell, Macpherson, and Starchenko computed a bound for VC-density in p-adic numbers as well as for a number of other NIP structures. They observed connections to dp-rank and dp-minimality, notions first introduced by Shelah. In well behaved NIP structures families of uniformly definable sets tend to have their VC-density bounded by a multiple of their dimension, a simple linear behavior. In a lot of cases including p-adic numbers this bound is not known to be optimal. My research concentrates on improving those bounds and adapting those techniques to compute VC-density in other common NIP structures of interest to mathematicians.

Some of the other well behaved NIP structures are Shelah-Spencer graphs and flat graphs. Shelah-Spencer graphs are limit structures for random graphs arising naturally in combinatorial context. Their model theory was studied by [Baldwin-Shi ’96], [Baldwin-Shelah ’97], with [Laskowski ’06] providing a quantifier simplification result.  Flat graphs were first studied by Podewski-Ziegler in 1978, showing that those are stable, and later results gave a criterion for super stability. Those are subclasses of NIP theories, extremely well behaved model theoretically.

Research plan:

The first chapter of my dissertation concentrates on Shelah-Spencer graphs. In [2] I show that they have infinite dp-rank, so they are poorly behaved as NIP structures. I also show that one can obtain arbitrarily high VC-density when looking at uniformly definable families in a fixed dimension. However I'm able to bound VC-density of individual formulas in terms of edge density of the graphs they define.

The second chapter of my dissertation concentrates on graphs and graph-like structures. In [1] I answer an open question from Aschenbrenner et al., computing VC-density for trees viewed as a partial order. The main idea is to adapt a technique of Parigot to partition trees into weakly interacting parts, with simple bounds of VC-density on each. Similar partitions come up in the Podewski-Ziegler analysis of flat graphs. I am able to use that technique to show that flat graphs are dp-minimal, an important first step before establishing bounds on VC-density. The first of my remaining research goals is to apply this partition to compute VC-densities for specific families of flat graphs.

The third chapter of my dissertation deals with p-adic numbers and valued fields. In [3] I show that VC-density is linear for an additive reduct of p-adic numbers, one of the reducts described in [Leenknegt, 2013]. I will explore other reducts described in that paper, to see if my techniques apply to those as well. In [3] I also show that in Henselian valued fields of equ-characteristic zero, linear one-dimensional VC-density in residue field and value group imply linear one-dimensional VC-density in the valued field, a result along the lines of the results of Ax-Kochen mentioned before. The second of my remaining research goals is to apply those techniques to higher dimensions, as well as applying them to RV sorts introduced by [Flenner, 2011].

My dissertation will therefore consist of VC-density computations for partial order trees, Shelah-Spencer graphs, flat graphs, and various valued fields, as well as any additional applications I am able to find after discussion with my advisor and my colleagues.

[1] Bobkov, A. {\it VC-density for trees}, in preparation
[2] Bobkov, A. {\it Some VC-density computations for Shelah-Spencer graphs}, in preparation
[3] Bobkov, A. {\it VC-density in $\mathbb{Q}_p$-reducts}, in preparation